Diluting medicine at the bedside immediately before administration to a pediatric patient results in frequent and detrimental errors. Due to the stress involved in this situation, as well as the presence of bias in dilution calculations, these errors occur more frequently than hospitals desire. When observing the normal workflow of this dilution process, an opportunity area can be defined in which an automated solution can be introduced. We are recommending CalcuLife: a dilution calculator for nurses that takes the necessary inputs from a nurse and outputs the volume of drug and diluent needed. Usability test data confirms the usefulness of our proposed solution. With more usability research, a questionnaire about how CalcuLife can fit into large-scale hospital operations, and hospital-wide distributions and training programs, CalcuLife can benefit nurses and reduce detrimental results related to dilution calculation errors. 

There are two main factors that lead to the frequent and detrimental errors that occur when calculating medication dilution at the bedside. First, a stressful environment in which a patient needs immediate help leads nurses to feel rushed and therefore make numeracy mistakes in the calculation. Second, there is inadequate policy to double-check calculation results due to theories such as social loafing and confirmation bias. Therefore, our project aims to provide an automated solution that decreases the number of dosing errors with medication diluted at the bedside, as well as improve nurse confidence and decrease overall stress. This solution should address the first factor of a stressful environment, as well as eliminate the need for the second factor, a two-nurse check. That is, if an automated and trusted solution is provided, a two-nurse check is not necessary. Observations and interviews were conducted with registered nurses to understand the workflow of diluting medication at the bedside in order to develop a useful solution.
